Hey Everyone I'm Khail and
welcome to Kingston's IndieHack.
On today's episode we are going to be tackling some pretty cool video hacks
that you can do with your GoPo.
And because we can't seem to get him off the set
we brought back pro photographer Mark Dimalanta!
-How is it going mam?
-Good to see you. Thank you for having me back.
So we're talking about the GoPro, a device I love.
Do you use all time?
Well, I typically use it for stills.
And the techniques I use
can easily be used to used for video.
I am going to teach you techniques
on how to keep it stable
and also dealing with the elements. We use these in extreme environments.
I want to teach you the small tricks to make you have the best video footage you can possibly achieve.
Perfect! I need all of the help I can get.
Let's get started.
Alright Mark! Let's jump right into it!
What do I need to get started?
For today's attack makes you larger GoPros up with
high-capacity very fast microSD cards.
This one, by Kingston, is 128 gigabytes and class 10 which insures you have the  the speed
and the volume to record anything.
Now, the GoPro was designed to do a lot of crazy stuff.
So let's tackle one the biggest problems which is
stability and getting those steady shots.
One thing you want to do is make sure that your camera stable because
when you're output is very shaky and jittery it can be
nauseating for the viewer.
A very simple technique that we can use is
stabilizing the camera against, of all places, your chin.
A technique like this is good for if you just want to
follow subject,  for example panning.
The second one: something as simple as a belt and be used to stabilize your own wrist.
This creates a counter tension
against your hand to keep it steady.
And it works far better than just hand-holding alone.
The main thing is to keep it steady so your viewer doesn't  have this jittery shaky view that is hard to watch.
Cool!  That is a good DIY for on the go.
Now, the GoPro is waterproof but surely
you have some hacks for that?
Yes, they're waterproof but they don't float.
So just imagine you're in the water
and you drop this thing
in especially murky, dark water.
It is lost.
However, you can buy this from GoPor for $20.
But why not save a few dollars for extra
burritos and spent five bucks!
These are designed for key chains.
Attach some 3M VHB rated two-way tape.
And it is very simple. Just cut the size that you need,
attach it to the back.
Get a good, strong seal.
-And there goes!
-Beautiful! Look at that!
And you will not have to
chase after your camera if you drop it.
I can get some pretty cool shots there too, right?
Hello fish!
Alright so what about those of us that
want to get different shots using a selfie stick?
Well, the selfie stick is heavy
so you need more buoyancy.
What you should use is a swim noodle.
They only cost $1 from a store like Walmart.
Cut it to size and just put it on.
If you are at a swimming pool
which is not too turbulent that alone is good enough.
But if you're river kayaking,
jet skiing, surfing in the ocean
you can use Velcro straps or even duct tape
to secure the rig.
I'm not cool enough to do any of that stuff but
this is perfect for summer!
Alright, Mark, let's talk about time lapse.
Sure.  One of the most dynamic things you can record with your GoPro
is a time-lapse montage of images that a shot with an intervals.
Set the camera to time lapse mode set to shoot 1 frame every 5 seconds.
A $5 egg timer can be purchased at any kitchen appliance store.
Set it for one hour.
Set the GoPro with a mount on the timer.
Place it in a field that view that gives you the composition that you want to record.
The best times to shoot are the golden hours:
a half hour before and after sunrise or sunset.
And let it just do its magic.
One frame every five seconds.
OK Mark, so I hear you have one last crazy trick for us.
Our last hack is a DIY cable slider.
The nice thing about the cable slider is that it's a nice alternative from a drone.
You can use it for aerial shots or if you want to follow a subject from high vantage point.
OK so how would someone make a cable slider?
You can go to a hardware store and get simple pulleys, carabiner fasteners,
simple laundry line hooks, some scrap wood and a
quarter-inch bolt to fix to the GoPro mount.
You can add a counterbalance.
Something as simple as a water bottle will work.
And it makes stable throughout its
travel along the cable.
Cool!  Fun stuff!  Alright Mark,
thank you for all the really cool hacks.
You told us about some pretty cool stuff.
We got to try them out in the field.
We even got a few comparison shots to check out.
But I need know, how did I do?
The techniques for simple straightforward.
You did a great job giving the viewer
that fantastic, out-of-the-box type of view...
...you could be the next Christopher Nolan!
I can only hope!
So don't just sit there. Get out and try them yourselves.
And don't forget to share them with us.
And also don't forget to subscribe
to the Kingston channel
so that you can get more Indy Hack
and lots of other videos.
See you guys later!